# Chapter Status README

## Overview of App Functionallity 
### The app is separated into 3 tabs: Chapter Finder, Table, and Summary. The Chapter Finder tab is the main landing page and allows the user to select the region(s), district(s), and chapter(s) they want to look at. The user can also select the Metric Type which will change the available choices under the Chapter Metrics. The choice for Chapter Metrics will change the data used, table displayed on the Table tab, and type of graph. Selecting different regions/districts will change the appearance of the map to include only the ones selected. Selecting different chapters will change the appearance of the map, showing the location of the chapter as selected. Also, it will add the selected chapter(s) to a list used for the graph and table. Only chapters selected will be displayed in the graph and table. Important note, not all chapters have data for all chapter metrics (such as Received Stimulus Funds and Stimulus Spending) a note where the graph would appear reminds users to select chapters to display a graph. The graph includes a download button. The Table tab, as mentioned before, is based on the chapters & chapter metric selected in the Chapter Finder tab and is also downloadable. There is also a button to select all chapters. This will select all chapters for all districts selected in the Chapter Finder tab, therefore; it will not select every chapter if not all the districts are selected. Finally, there is a summary report on the Summary tab. This is also downloadable as an html file created by summaryOutput.Rmd.

## Running the App
### To run the app, simply open the app.R file and click the Run App button in the top left side of R studio. Also highlighting all the code and hitting CRTL+Enter will work as well. 

## Info about Data
### All the data needed is already present in the \data folder. However, if changes need to be made or someone want to see how the final data was created there are steps 1-5 in ASA_Chapter_Health_Database\Code. These steps use data present in ASA_Chapter_Health_Database\Data. The Code folder is the parent folder to the whole GitHub folder, therefore, not in the GitHub. Steps 1-5 will not create ASA_CHAP_LAT_LONG.csv, this file was manually created by getting the coordinates of a random spot of the city the chapter is located in. They do not represent the exact lat/long of a chapter because we do not know the addresses for the chapters; however, it looks sufficient in the zoomed out map.

